这是在medium上看到的一很不错篇文章，整理出来分享给大家。

4 Things Emotionally Intelligent People Don’t Do
情商高的人不会做的4件事

Give up these bad habits and your natural emotional intelligence will shine. Improving your emotional intelligence is often about what you do less of, not more of.
提高情商往往不是去经历更多，而是少做。

作者作为一个心理学家，认为情商不好的人往往体现在以下几个方面:
* They blame other people for their problems 
* They trap themselves in cycles of stress and anxiety
* They self-sabotage as soon as they start to make progress

如果你想提高你的情商，学会在生活中发现这些习惯，并努力消除它们。到底是哪四件事呢？

### 1. Criticizing Others 批评他人
批评别人往往是一种无意识的防御机制，旨在减轻我们自己的不安全感。


Criticizing others is often an unconscious defense mechanism aimed at alleviating our own insecurities.

One of the reasons it’s so easy to slip into habitually criticizing others is that it makes us feel good:
* When you point out to yourself that someone else is dumb, you’re also implying that you’re smart. And that feels good.
* When you criticize someone else for being naive, what you’re really doing is telling yourself that you’re sophisticated. And that feels good.
* When you silently chuckle to yourself about how terrible someone’s fashion sense is, you’re telling yourself how refined your own taste is. And that feels good.

**Helpful criticism is about making the world better. Unhelpful criticism is about making yourself feel better.**

Without knowing it, people who are constantly critical of others are really just trying to alleviate their own insecurities.
Understand that criticism of others is a waste of time and energy because it’s all time and energy that’s not getting invested in improving yourself and the world around you.

>“Criticism of others is a form of self-commendation. We think we make the picture hang straight on our wall by telling our neighbors that all his pictures are crooked.”
― Fulton J. Sheen

### 2 Worrying About the Future
And that’s what chronic worriers do. They’re so afraid of uncertainty, and so unwilling to live with it, that they trick themselves into thinking they can make the future less uncertain — by thinking about it constantly!

Chronic worriers live under the illusion that thinking is always problem-solving and that planning always leads to greater levels of preparedness. But neither of those are true:
* Just because you’re thinking about a problem doesn’t mean you’re thinking about it productively.
* And just because you’re planning — running through countless hypothetical future scenarios — doesn’t mean you’re any better equipped to handle them. Often, you’re just making yourself feel more prepared.

Worry gives you the illusion of certainty. But in the end, all it does is fragilize you.

When you stop insisting that the world act the way you want it to tomorrow, it becomes far easier to work with the world you’ve got today.

>“Worry does not empty tomorrow of its sorrow, it empties today of its strength.”
>― Corrie Ten Boom

### 3  Ruminating on the Past
Just like we humans crave order and certainty, we also crave control. We’re obsessed with the idea that, with enough effort and perseverance, we can do or achieve anything.

If you want to move on with your life instead of staying stuck in the past, you must accept the past for what it is—including feeling helpless.

Don’t give up control over your future by pretending you can control the past.

“To think too much is a disease.”
― Fyodor Dostoyevsky


###  4. Maintaining Unrealistic Expectations
Of course, most people with unrealistic expectations don’t see it that way. You probably see your expectations of other people as a good thing: Having high expectations for people encourages them to grow and mature and become their best self!
Maybe, but this is still a subtle form of control. You have an idea for what another person in your life should be or do or accomplish and your expectation is your way of trying to make it happen.
But what does it mean, exactly, to maintain an unrealistic expectation?

Simply put, it means you spend time crafting stories in your head about what other people should do. And when they inevitably fail to live up to those standards, you reflexively compare reality to those expectations and feel frustrated and disappointed.
And how do you respond to this frustration and disappointment? By creating even stronger and more elaborate expectations, because it makes you feel good and in control!

Hang on to your hopes but let go of your expectations.
“He was swimming in a sea of other people’s expectations. Men had drowned in seas like that.”
― Robert Jordan


### All You Need to Know
If you want to increase your emotional intelligence, try approaching the problem backwards: Instead of trying to improve your emotional intelligence skills, strive to identify and eliminate the habits that are interfering with your natural emotional intelligence in the first place.
Stop criticizing others.
Stop worrying about the future.
Stop ruminating on the past.
Stop expecting too much of others.




