Cheering yourself up. It’s not about avoidance. It’s about recognition. It’s about self-love. It’s your day. It’s your moment. It’s your life. It’s worth it.
If you’re feeling in a funk, **here are 10 Ways to Cheer Yourself Up**.
(*to be in a funk*:  feeling sad and down and not knowing why.)

### 1. Feel it.  感受和接受
Dr. Jill Bolte Taylor is a neuroanatomist(神经学解剖学家) – a brain scientist who studies the anatomy of the brain. 
She had a stroke. She watched her brain functions shift and alter. She watched how her brain processed, or didn’t process, stimulation. She found out that if she let herself feel an emotion, it would pass in about 90 seconds. 

所以不要逃避你的感受，然后希望它会消失。
不会的！
除非你让自己去感受和接受。 

### 2. Observe things. 观察
As a witness to what you sense rather than as what you sense, you’ll tap into that part of you that exists above and beyond your funk. You’ll go beyond reaction and into the ability to respond.

跳出来观察和感受，视角放广一点，此时的不开心可能压根就不是事。

### 3.  **Master** your mind. …or, just give it a little test-run.
The verbal part of our mind processes about *40* bits of information per second. 
The non-verbal part of our brain processes about *11 million* bits of information per second. 
So when the verbal part of your mind is telling you “*Everything sucks*,” it’s not *basing* that conclusion *on* very much information. 

有时不要相信大脑中另一个ni



### 4. Rock your body.
### 5. Clear the slate.
### 6. Gather your hall of champions.
###  7. Ask for help.
###  8. How do you want to feel?
### 9. The quickie.
### 10. Say thank you.
